pandan extract

- Give your pandan leaves a really good wash under running water to remove any dirt. Cut off the ends / base of your leaves with scissors and discard. Cut remaining leaves into small 2 cm / 1 inch thick pieces directly into your blender.
- Pour in the water over the top and blend. Note: Depending on the size of your blender, you may need to add a little more water and spoon down the sides to get the leaves to blend well. It should look like a thick green paste once ready.
- Place a square piece of cheesecloth (or paper towel) over a bowl and spoon in your pandan leaf mixture. Wrap up and twist to hold it together with one hand. Using your free hand, grab the bundled pandan and squeeze out the juice. You may need to do this a few times to get out as much as possible.
- Use straight away if required in a recipe, or pour the pandan extract into a small sterilised jar and store in the fridge. This will settle overnight to make layers – pandan water on top and more concentrated pandan extract at the bottom. Should make approx. 170ml / 5.7oz. Use fresh pandan extract within 3 days. While this can be frozen, it’s not recommended as it will lose its potency very quick. If you must freeze it, use within the month and keep in a sealed, airtight container.
- When you first blend the water and pandan leaves together, the liquid that you squeeze out is pandan extract, which is sometimes also referred to as pandan juice.
- After allowing the extract to settle overnight, you’ll be left two layers of liquid – pandan water on top and concentrated pandan extract on the bottom. You can discard the pandan water to get to the extract, or use the pandan water to lightly flavour another dish.
